Want to help out with SD? Great! We're always interested in new contributors,
and have plenty of tasks that new people can help out with. Help make SD work
better for you.

Making the website better
=========================

This website is a wiki! Please edit liberally&mdash;if you think something
could be better, chances are it could.

You can also edit the website [using git](/ikiwiki.cgi?do=branchable). [Drop us
a line](/contact/) if you want to get a commit bit! (Really, just ask. We'd
love to give you one.)

Increasing test coverage
========================

We currently have pretty good test coverage, but it can always be better. We're
publishing coverage analysis reports for [Prophet
here](http://web.mit.edu/spang/Public/prophet/prophet-coverage/) and [SD
here](http://web.mit.edu/spang/Public/prophet/sd-coverage/). New tests that
increase our coverage are gratefully accepted.

Squashing bugs
==============

If there's anything from [the bug list](/sd/bugs/) that catches your interest,
or if you find a new bug, feel free to fix it and submit a patch. If it's a
feature-wishlist bug that requires design alterations, however, you may wish to
talk to us first to make sure your ideas and ours are in line.

Documentation
=============

We're currently lacking a good tutorial, screenshots, and other bling to show
people and help them use SD. Some ideas for things we're looking for here can
be found by searching for tickets assigned to the "docs" component (from a
checked out copy of SD's git repository, with the SD bug replica cloned:

> git sd ticket search -- component=docs 'status=~new|open'

Writing foreign replica syncs
=============================

If you want to write a foreign replica module for an issue tracker that SD
doesn't support yet, we'd love to hear from you.

Submitting patches
==================

So, you've written a patch. Rock on! Now you just need to get it applied.

Our preferred way of receiving patches is by email.

From your checkout of Prophet or SD:

> git format-patch origin/master

And then [email us](/contact/) the generated patch(es). Try to send it to the
right list for whatever you're patching, but most of us are subscribed to both
lists and we're not too picky about it.

When submitting patches, try to have good commit messages and separate your
patches into logical units. But don't worry about being perfect&mdash;the worst
that can happen is that we ask for an amended patch with changes.

Getting commit access
---------------------

After you've sent us a patch that looks good, you're eligible to get commit
access to the repository, if you want it. [Ask us](/contact/) if we forget to
ask you.
